# Reading notes for 2022

* Klara and the Sun (Kazuo Ishiguro).  Ishiguro uses his characteristic unreliable narrator, but the novelty here is that the narrator is a sophisticated (but childlike) AI
* Understanding the Australian Health Care System (Ellen Willis). 
* The Distance Cure: A History of Teletherapy (Hannah Zeavin)
* There is Nothing For You Here (Fiona Hill).  An engaging memoir from Russia-specialist Fiona Hill.  
* A Promised Land (Barack Obama)
* Learning to Teach in Higher Education (Paul Ramsden)
* The Wounded Storyteller (Arthur Frank).  Informative exploration of “narrative medicine”
* The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (Thomas Kuhn)
* A Carnival of Snackery (David Sedaris)
* Oliver Twist (Charles Dickens).  
* Digital Health (Eric Perakslis)
* Humanities Data Analysis: Case Studies in Python (Folgart Karsdorp)
* Puff Piece (John Saffron).  Engaging journalistic discussion of the electronic cigarette industry in Australia
* 21 Lessons for the 21st Century (Yuval Noah Harari)
* Two Besides (Alan Bennett)
* Illness as Metaphor (Susan Sontag)
* Dark Academia (Peter Fleming). Sobering analysis of the modern research university and its dysfunctions
* Death (Shelly Kagan).  Philsophical exploration of the nature of death
* The Stigma of Addiction (Jonathan Avery)
* Happy Go Lucky (Sedaris)
* The Productive Researcher (Mark Reed)
* Philosophy of Psychiatry (Tsou).  Short introduction to some of the core issues in the Philosophy of Psychiatry (e.g. psychiatric classification, issues around the validity and utility of RDoC)
* Hands-on Healthcare Data (Andrew Nguyen).  Describes some of the core tasks, challenges, and resources in health analytics
* Craft of Scientific Presentation (Michael Alley)
* Artificial Paranoia (Kenneth Colby).  A seminal book describing PARRY, a paranoid conversational agent.  
* Empire of Pain (Patrick Radden Keefe).  An extensive history of regulatory capture and the role of the Sackler family in the pharmaceutical industry
* Text as Data (Grimmer).  An introduction to NLP from a social science perspective.  
* This is Going to Hurt (Adam Kay).  A funny (and disturbing) memoir of a junior doctor's career in the NHS
* Burning Questions (Margaret Atwood)
* How the World Really Works (Vaclav Smil)
* The Craft of College Teaching (Robert DiYanni)
* Rewired:  Protecting Your Brain in the Digital Age (Carl Marci)
* 1984 (George Orwell).  Revisiting a book I last read when I was a teen.  It's much more disturbing this time around.
* Straight Man (Richard Russo).  Campus novel set in a US English Literature department

